# adc_archiving

this repository contains scripts and helper templates for generating eml metadata for the NSF Arctic Data Center of Toolik Field Station's UAV data products with minimal manual configuring. 
emls are produced according to ADC guidelines using simple find and replace functions. 

GDAL is required for execution. 
## metadata.py

run metadata.py from the command line with an input csv containing the correctly formatted fields. Templates can be found in lib folder. 
```commandline
python metadata.py -i input_fields.csv
```
.xml files will be output to eml folder. 

## /lib
templates, input files, and helper scripts are found here. 

#### adc_template.xml
this is a reference xml that contains the bones of all metadata for UAV flights by Toolik Field Station. It uses unique key identifiers to serve as place holders for unique metadata that is filled in by simple find and replace functions. 

#### adc_eml_keys.csv 
column one is used to generate the keys used in a dictionary representing each data folder. the other columsn provide descriptions and examples of the fields and how to format the responses grammatically. 

#### /inputs
home for reference csvs of required information. I have the columns organized with where I find the information: file explorer structure, metadata form, and readme file 
excel file includes two explanatory rows. csv is what to submit to metadata.py

the final field **flag** is a note-to-self holder while entering data that is printed to the console for that file as a place to note any manual adjustments to be made to the output file, such as low data quality or different methodology. 

#### mapping.py 
mapping.py does the bulk of the work to replace fields in the adc_template according to dictionaries generated by input data in metadata.py 
any particularly complicated formatting is done in format.py, although these two could easily be merged. 

#### format.py
format.py contains helper functions for formatting data 

#### gdalinfo.py
gdalinfo.py is called on an individual raster and generates raster-specific geographic metadata 

#### creator_ids.py
creator_ids.py is a helper function not called in any of the other scripts. Use this to generate unique ADC-compliant IDs for "creators"

#### creator.txt, ms_spatialRaster.txt, ms_2019_spatialRaster.txt, nsf_project.txt, project.txt
are all template text files used to insert longer or more complicated information that shouldn't be present in each file. There is certainly a better way to do this, including because editin a tab-delimted txt is annoying, which is what is required of project.txt

### /emls
Output emls will be created in an /emls directory, but can easily be created in the folder where the data is found instead by swapping line 60 in metadata.py. Consider generating in /eml folder and copying to data folder once manually reviewed though. 


#### Limitations
* most hard-coded values are found in lib/adc_template or the various txt files, which makes it annoying to track down edits. 
* metadata.py expects there to be one rgb orthomosaic, one digital surface model, and looks for a multispectral orthomosaic to include. if multiple rgb or dsm files are included, it uses the most recent file. workaround until I decide if it's worth it for TFS's workflow: split out products into separate folders, add a line to input csv for each folder but shared metadata, and copy/paste to add in spatial rasters to one single output eml. 


